## Scott H. Young

# Ultralearning

## Chapter 1
Can You Get an MIT Education Without Going to MIT?
MIT’s OpenCourseWare, the platform used for uploading class material, had never been intended as a substitute for attending the school.Computation Structures, one of the required courses, which taught how to build a computer from scratch using circuits and transistors, had no recorded lectures or assigned textbook.

**Learn a language in three months.**

Tower, Lewis explained his approach: Start speaking the very first day. Don’t be afraid to talk to strangers. Use a phrasebook to get started; save formal study for later. Use visual mnemonics to memorize vocabulary. Most people will forget what they learn first, needing to remind themselves of it again and again for it to stick. The algorithm fixes this problem by calculating the optimal time for reviewing each fact so you don’t waste energy overdrilling the same information, but also so you don’t forget what you’ve already learned.

**Uncovering the Ultralearners.**

The ultralearners had a lot of shared traits.They usually worked alone, often toiling for months and years without much more than a blog entry to announce their efforts. Their interests tended toward obsession. They were aggressive about optimizing their strategies, fiercely debating the merits of esoteric concepts such as interleaving practice, leech thresholds, or keyword mnemonics. Above all, they cared about learning. Their motivation to learn pushed them to tackle intense projects, even if it often came at the sacrifice of credentials or conformity.

## Chapter 2
**Why Ultralearning Matters**

Ultralearning: A strategy for acquiring skills and knowledge that is both self-directed and intense.First, ultralearning is a strategy. A strategy is not the only solution to a given problem, but it may be a good one.
Second, ultralearning is self-directed. It’s about how you make decisions about what to learn and why. It’s possible to be a completely self-directed learner and still decide that attending a particular school is the best way to learn something. Similarly, you could “teach yourself” something on your own by mindlessly following the steps outlined in a textbook. With ultralearning, deeply and effectively learning things is always the main priority.

**The Case for Ultralearning**

It’s obvious that ultralearning isn’t easy. You’ll have to set aside time from your busy schedule in order to pursue something that will strain you mentally, emotionally, and possibly even physically. You’ll be forced to face down frustrations directly without retreating into more comfortable options. Given this difficulty, it’s important to articulate clearly why ultralearning is something you should seriously consider.
The first reason is for your work. You already expend much of your energy working to earn a living.The second reason is for your personal life.Ultralearning offers a path to master those things that will bring you deep satisfaction and selfconfidence.

**Education: Tuition Is Too High**

Tuition has increased far faster than the rate of inflation, which means that unless you are well poised to translate that education into a major salary increase, it may not be worth the expense.Therefore, even for those who do go to college, there are very often skill gaps between what was learned in school and what is needed to succeed. Ultralearning can fill some of those gaps when going back to school isn’t an affordable option.

**Technology: New Frontiers in Learning**

For those who know how to use technology wisely, it is the easiest time in history to teach yourself something new.
Accelerate, Transition, and Rescue Your Career with Ultralearning
There are three main cases in which this strategy for quickly acquiring hard skills can apply: accelerating the career you have, transitioning to a new career, and cultivating a hidden advantage in a competitive world.

**Beyond Business: The Call to Ultralearning**

The best ultralearners are those who blend the practical reasons for learning a skill with an inspiration that comes from something that excites them.There’s an added benefit to ultralearning that transcends even the skills one learns with it. Doing hard things, particularly things that involve learning something new, stretches your self-conception. It gives you confidence that you might be able to do things that you couldn’t do before.

**Finding Time for Ultralearning**

There are three main ways you can apply the ideas of ultralearning, even if you have to manage other commitments and challenges in your life: new part-time projects, learning sabbaticals, and reimagining existing learning efforts.The first way is by pursuing ultralearning part-time. The most dramatic examples of learning success tend to be those where the ultralearner put impressive amounts of time into the project. The second way is by pursuing ultralearning during gaps in work and school.  The third way is to integrate ultralearning principles into the time and energy you already devote to learning.

## Chapter 3
How to Become an Ultralearner
Sometimes you’ll get lucky and embark on a path that will take you quite far. But even the failure mode of ultralearning is usually that you will learn a skill fairly well.You may not compete in world championships or completely switch careers, but as long as you stick with the process, you’re bound to learn something new.

**Principles of Becoming an Ultralearner**\
There are nine universal principles that underlie the ultralearning projects described so far. Each embodies a particular aspect of successful learning, how ultralearners maximize the effectiveness of the principle through the choices they make in their projects. They are:
1. **METALEARNING: FIRST DRAW A MAP.** Start by learning how to learn the subject or skill you want to tackle. Discover how to do good research and how to draw on your past competencies to learn new skills more easily.
2. **FOCUS: SHARPEN YOUR KNIFE.** Cultivate the ability to concentrate.Carve out chunks of time when you can focus on learning, and make it easy to just do it.
3. **DIRECTNESS: GO STRAIGHT AHEAD.** Learn by doing the thing you want to become good at. Don’t trade it off for other tasks, just because those are more convenient or comfortable.
4. **DRILL: ATTACK YOUR WEAKEST POINT.** Be ruthless in improving your weakest points. Break down complex skills into small parts; then master those parts and build them back together again.
5. **RETRIEVAL: TEST TO LEARN.** Testing isn’t simply a way of assessing knowledge but a way of creating it. Test yourself before you feel confident, and push yourself to actively recall information rather than passively review it.
6. **FEEDBACK: DON’T DODGE THE PUNCHES.** Feedback is harsh and uncomfortable. Know how to use it without letting your ego get in the way. Extract the signal from the noise, so you know what to pay attention to and what to ignore.
7. **RETENTION: DON’T FILL A LEAKY BUCKET.** Understand what you forget and why. Learn to remember things not just for now but forever.
8. **INTUITION: DIG DEEP BEFORE BUILDING UP.** Develop your intuition through play and exploration of concepts and skills. Understand how understanding works, and don’t recourse to cheap tricks of memorization to avoid deeply knowing things.
9. **EXPERIMENTATION: EXPLORE OUTSIDE YOUR COMFORT ZONE.** True mastery comes not justfrom following the path trodden by others but from exploring possibilities they haven’t yet imagined.

## Chapter 4

Principle 1

Metalearning

First Draw a Map

**What Is Metalearning?**

The prefix meta comes from the Greek term μετά, meaning “beyond.” It typically signifies when something is “about” itself or deals with a higher layer of abstraction. In this case metalearning means learning about learning.These two pieces in Everett’s linguistic arsenal—a richly detailed map of how languages work and a method that provides a path to fluency—have allowed Everett to accomplish a lot more than just learning some simple sentences.

**The Power of Your Metalearning Map**

Everett’s case beautifully illustrates the power of using metalearning to learn new things faster and more effectively. Being able to see how a subject works, what kinds of skills and information must be mastered, and what methods are available to do so more effectively is at the heart of success of all ultralearning projects. Metalearning thus forms the map, showing you how to get to your destination without getting lost.Linguistic examples are often easier to study because there’s a cleaner separation of metalearning and regular learning.

**How to Draw Your Map**

There are two main ways: over the short term and over the long term.Over the short term, you can do research to focus on improving your metalearning before and during a learning project. Over the long term, the more ultralearning projects you do, the larger your set of general metalearning skills will be. You’ll know what your capacity is for learning, how you can best schedule your time and manage your motivation, and you’ll have well-tested strategies for dealing with common problems.

**Tactic: The Expert Interview Method**

The main way you can do research of this kind is to talk to people who have already achieved what you want to achieve.Finding such people isn’t as hard as it sounds.Reaching out and setting up a meeting with an expert isn’t hard, either,but it’s a step many people shy away from. They worry that they’ll be rejected, ignored, or even yelled at for presuming to take up a person’s time. The truth is, however, that this rarely happens.
Metalearning research isn’t a onetime activity you do only before starting your project. You should continue to do research as you learn more. Often obstacles and opportunities aren’t clear before you start, so reassessing is a necessary step of the learning process.

## Chapter 5

Principle 2

Focus

Sharpen Your Knife

**Problem 1: Failing to Start Focusing (aka Procrastinating)**

The first problem that many people have is starting to focus. The most obvious way this manifests itself is when you procrastinate: instead of doing the thing you’re supposed to, you work on something else or slack off.The problem is when you don’t want to do the thing you need to be focusing on, either because there’s something else you want to do more. Recognizing that you’re procrastinating is the first step to avoiding it.Once you can easily and automatically recognize your tendency to procrastinate, when it occurs, you can take steps to resist the impulse. 

**Problem 2: Failing to Sustain Focus (aka Getting Distracted)**

The second problem people tend to encounter is an inability to sustain focus.You need to consciously adjust your approach.You ultimately need to find what works best for you, considering not only what is optimal for the purposes of retention but also what fits your schedule, personality, and work flow.

**Problem 3: Failing to Create the Right Kind of Focus**

A third, problem, subtler than the other two, has to do with the quality and direction of your attention.research relating two different variables, arousal and task complexity, to the question of how you should apply your attention. Arousal (the general, not sexual, variety) is your overall feeling of energy or alertness.You should find out what works best for your own ability to focus through self-testing.

## Chapter 6

Principle 3

Directness

Go Straight Ahead

**The Importance of Being Direct**

Directness is the idea of learning being tied closely to the situation.Directness is the hallmark of most ultralearning projects.Indirect approaches to learning, however, aren’t limited to traditional education. Many self-directed learners fall into the trap of indirect learning.The twin challenge of directness is that sometimes the exact situation in which you want to use the skill isn’t available for easy practice.

**Transfer: Education’s Dirty Secret**

Unfortunately, transfer is also something that, despite more than a century of intense work and research, has largely failed to occur in formal education.

**Overcoming the Problem of Transfer with Directness**

Directness solves the problem of transfer in two ways. The first and most obvious is that if you learn with a direct connection to the area in which you eventually want to apply the skill, the need for far transfer is significantly reduced.Second, directness may help with transfer to new situations, beyond its more obvious role in preventing the need for far transfer. 

**How to Learn Directly**

**Tactic 1: Project-Based Learning**

Many ultralearners opt for projects rather than classes to learn the skills they need. 
Tactic 2: Immersive Learning
Immersion is the process of surrounding yourself with the target environment in which the skill is practiced. 
Tactic 3: The Flight Simulator Method
For flying a plane, this means that practicing on a flight simulator may be as good for learning as flying an actual plane if it sufficiently calls on the discriminations and decisions a pilot needs to make.
Tactic 4: The Overkill Approach
The overkill approach is to put yourself into an environment where the demands are going to be extremely high, so you’re unlikely to miss any important lessons or feedback.One way you can overkill a project is to aim for a particular test, performance, or challenge that will be above the skill level you strictly require.

## Chapter 7

Principle 4

Drill

Attack Your Weakest Point  

**The Chemistry of Learning**

In chemistry, there’s a useful concept known as the rate-determining step. This occurs when a reaction takes place over multiple steps, with the products of one reaction becoming the reagents for another.

**Drills and Cognitive Load**

Rate-determining steps in learning—where one component of a complex skill determines your overall level of performance—are a powerful reason to apply drills. The reason is that when you are practicing a complex skill, your cognitive resources must be spread over many different aspects of the task.Drills resolve this problem by simplifying a skill enough that you can focus your cognitive resources on a single aspect. 

**The Direct-Then-Drill Approach**

The first step is to try to practice the skill directly. This means figuring out where and how the skill will be used and then trying to match that situation as close as is feasible when practicing. 
The next step is to analyze the direct skill and try to isolate components that are either rate-determining steps in your performance or subskills you find difficult to improve because there are too many other things going on for you to focus on them.
The final step is to go back to direct practice and integrate what you’ve learned.

**Tactics for Designing Drills**

There are three major problems when applying this principle. The first is figuring out when and what to drill.The second difficulty with this principle is designing the drill to produce improvement.Finally, doing drills is hard and often uncomfortable. Teasing out the worst thing about your performance and practicing that in isolation takes guts. 

## Chapter 8

Principle 5

Retrieval

Test to Learn

**The Testing Effect**

Testing yourself—trying to retrieve information without looking at the text—clearly outperformed all other conditions.Since self-testing and actual testing are most similar, perhaps it is this similarity that allows this method to work better.Another possible explanation for why self-testing works is feedback.

**The Paradox of Studying**

Human beings don’t have the ability to know with certainty how well they’ve learned something. Instead, we need to rely on clues from our experience of studying to give us a feeling about how well we’re doing. These so-called judgments of learning (JOLs) are based, in part, on how fluently we can process something.Whether you are ready or not, retrieval practice works better. Especially if you combine retrieval with the ability to look up the answers, retrieval practice is a much better form of studying than the ones most students apply.

**Is Difficulty Desirable?**

The idea of desirable difficulties in retrieval makes a potent case for the ultralearning strategy. Low-intensity learning strategies typically involve either less or easier retrieval. Pushing difficulty higher and opting for testing oneself well before you are “ready” is more efficient. 
The forwardtesting effect, shows that retrieval not only helps enhance what you’ve learned previously but can even help prepare you to learn better.

## Chapter 9

Principle 6

Feedback

Don’t Dodge the Punches

**The Power of Information**

Feedback is one of the most consistent aspects of the strategy ultralearners use.What often separated the ultralearning strategy from more conventional approaches was the immediacy, accuracy, and intensity of the feedback being provided.

**Can Feedback Backfire?**

Feedback works well when it provides useful information that can guide future learning. when seeking feedback, the ultralearner needs to be on guard for two possibilities. The first is overreacting to feedback  that doesn’t offer specific information that leads to improvement.Second, when it is incorrectly applied, feedback can have a negative impact on motivation.

**Informational Feedback: What Are You Doing Wrong?**

The next type of feedback is informational feedback. This feedback tells you what you’re doing wrong, but it doesn’t necessarily tell you how to fix it.Self-provided feedback is also ubiquitous, and in some pursuits it can be almost as good as feedback from others.  Because this kind of feedback often comes from direct interaction with the environment, it often pairs well with the third principle, directness.

**Corrective Feedback: How Can You Fix What You’re Doing Wrong?**

The best kind of feedback to get is corrective feedback. This is the feedback that shows you not only what you’re doing wrong but how to fix it. The main challenge of this kind of feedback is that it typically requires access to a teacher, expert, or mentor who can pinpoint your mistakes and correct them for you.

**How to Improve Your Feedback**

Tactic 1: Noise Cancellation
A noise-cancelling technique used in audio processing is filtering.One way to do this is to look for proxy signals. These don’t exactly equal success, but they tend to eliminate some of the noisy data. 

Tactic 2: Hitting the Difficulty Sweet Spot
The main way this impacts your learning is through the difficulty you’re facing.Ultralearners carefully adjust their environment so that they’re not able to predict whether they’ll succeed or fail.

Tactic 3: Metafeedback
There’s another type of feedback that’s perhaps even more useful: metafeedback. This kind of feedback isn’t about your performance but about evaluating the overall success of the strategy you’re using to learn.

Tactic 4: High-Intensity, Rapid Feedback
Sometimes the easiest way to improve feedback is simply to get a lot more of it a lot more often. This is particularly true when the default mode of learning involves little or infrequent feedback. 

## Chapter 10

Principle 7

Retention

Don’t Fill a Leaky Bucket

**Why Is It So Hard to Remember Things?**

In order to understand learning, you need to understand how and why you forget. Fading knowledge impacts the work you do as well.Over the intervening years, psychologists have identified at least three dominant theories to help explain why our brains forget much of what we initially learn: decay, interference, and forgotten cues.

**Decay: Forgetting with Time**

The first theory of forgetting is that memories simply decay with time. 

**Interference: Overwriting Old Memories with New Ones**

There are at least two flavors of this: proactive interference and retroactive interference. Proactive interference occurs when previously learned information makes acquiring new knowledge harder.  Retroactive interference is the opposite—where learning something new “erases” or suppresses an old memory.

**Forgotten Cues: A Locked Box with No Key**

The third theory of forgetting says that many memories we have aren’t actually forgotten but simply inaccessible. The idea here is that in order to say that one has remembered something, it needs to be retrieved from memory.
**How Can You Prevent Forgetting?**
Forgetting is the default, not the exception, so the ultralearners had devised various strategies for coping with this fact of life. These methods roughly divide into tackling two similar but different problems. The first set of methods deals with the problem of retention while undertaking the ultralearning project.The second set of methods, in contrast, has to do with the longevity of the skills and knowledge acquired after the project has been completed.
All systems seemed to work according to one of four mechanisms: spacing, proceduralization, overlearning, or mnemonics.
Memory Mechanism 1—Spacing: Repeat to Remember 
One of the pieces of studying advice that is best supported by research is that if you care about long-term retention, don’t cram.
Memory Mechanism 2—Proceduralization: Automatic Will Endure
One strategy for applying this concept might be to ensure that a certain amount of knowledge is completely proceduralized before practice concludes.
Memory Mechanism 3—Overlearning: Practice Beyond Perfect
Overlearning dovetails nicely with the principle of directness. Because direct use of a skill frequently involves overpracticing certain core abilities, that kernel is usually quite resistant to forgetting, even years later. 
Memory Mechanism 4—Mnemonics: A Picture Retains a Thousand Words
The final tool common to many ultralearners I encountered was mnemonics. There are many mnemonic strategies, and covering them all is outside the scope of this book. What they have in common is that they tend to be hyperspecific—that is, they are designed to remember very specific patterns of information. Second, they usually involve translating abstract or arbitrary information into vivid pictures or spatial maps. 

## Chapter 11

Principle 8

Intuition

Dig Deep Before Building Up

**How to Build Your Intuition**

**Rule 1**: Don’t Give Up on Hard Problems Easily
One way you can introduce this into your own efforts is to give yourself a “struggle timer” as you work on problems.


**Rule 2**: Prove Things to Understand Them
The illusion of understanding is very often the barrier to deeper knowledge, because unless that competency is actually tested, it’s easy to mislead yourself into thinking you understand more than you do.

**Rule 3**: Always Start with a Concrete Example
Most people learn abstract, general rules only after being exposed to many concrete examples.This technique enables some feedback, because when it’s not possible to imagine an appropriate example, that’s evidence that you don’t understand something well enough and would benefit from going back a few steps and learning the material better before continuing.

**Rule 4**: Don’t Fool Yourself
One way to avoid this problem of fooling yourself is simply to ask lots of questions.

**The Feynman Technique**

The purpose of using this technique is to help develop intuition about the ideas you are learning.The crux of this method is that it tries to dispel the illusion of explanatory depth. Since many of our understandings are never articulated, it’s easy to think you understand something you don’t. The Feynman Technique bypasses this problem by forcing you to articulate the idea you want to understand in detail.

**Application 1:** For Things You Don’t Understand at All
The first way to use this approach is when you don’t understand something at all. In this case, the easiest way is to do it with the book in hand and go back and forth between your explanation and the one in the book. 

**Application 2:** For Problems You Can’t Seem to Solve
A second way to apply this is for solving a difficult problem or mastering a technique. In this instance, it’s very important to go through the problem step by step alongside the explanation you generate, rather than simply summarizing it. 

**Application 3:** For Expanding Your Intuition
A final way to apply this method is to ideas that are so important that it would really help if you had a great intuition about them.

## Chapter 12

Principle 9

Experimentation

Explore Outside Your Comfort Zone

**Experimentation Is the Key to Mastery**

When starting to learn a new skill, often it’s sufficient simply to follow the example of someone who is further along than you. However, as your skill develops, it’s often no longer enough to simply follow the examples of others; you need to experiment and find your own path.
Part of the reason for this is that the early part of learning a skill tends to be the best trodden and supported, as everyone begins at the same place.A second reason for the value of experimentation as you approach mastery is that abilities are more likely to stagnate after you’ve mastered the basics.A final reason for the increasing importance of experimentation as you approach mastery is that many skills reward not only proficiency but originality. 

**Three Types of Experimentation**

1. Experimenting with Learning Resources
The first place to experiment is with the methods, materials, and resources you use to learn. This kind of experimentation is useful in helping you discover the guides and resources that work best for you. 

2. Experimenting with Technique
Experimentation plays a pivotal role.In the beginning, experimentation tends to focus on materials. Pick some subtopic within the skill you’re trying to cultivate, spend some time learning it aggressively, and then evaluate your progress.

3. Experimenting with Style
After you’ve matured in your learning a bit, the difficulty often switches from which resources to learn from or which techniques you’d like to master to the style you’d like to cultivate. Although there are some skills that have one and only one “correct” way of doing things, this is not true of most. Once you master the basics, there is no longer one “right” way to do everything but many different possibilities, all of which have different strengths and weaknesses.

**The Mindset of Experimentation**

Experimenting is based on the belief that improvements are possible in how you approach your work.The experimental mindset doesn’t just assume that growth is possible but creates an active strategy for exploring all the possible ways to reach it. 

**How to Experiment**

Tactic 1: Copy, Then Create
Copying simplifies the problem of experimentation somewhat because it gives you a starting point for making decisions. 

Tactic 2: Compare Methods Side-by-Side
By applying two different approaches side by side, you can often quickly get information not only about what works best but about which methods are better suited to your personal style.

Tactic 3: Introduce New Constraints
The challenge of learning  is that you think you already know what to do. It’s this latter difficulty that causes us to rerun old routines and old ways of solving problems. A powerful technique for pushing out of those grooves of routine is by introducing new constraints that make the old methods impossible to use.

Tactic 4: Find Your Superpower in the Hybrid of Unrelated Skills
However, for many areas of creative or professional skills, another, more accessible, path is to combine two skills that don’t necessarily overlap to bring about a distinct advantage that those who specialize in only one of those skills do not have.

Tactic 5: Explore the Extremes
Pushing out to an extreme in some aspect of the skill you’re cultivating, even if you eventually decide to pull it back to something more moderate, is often a good exploration strategy. This allows you to search the space of possibilities more effectively, while also giving you a broader range of experience.

## Chapter 13
Your First Ultralearning Project

**Step 1:** Do Your Research
The first step in any project is to do the metalearning research required to give you a good starting point. Research is a bit like packing a suitcase for a long voyage. Your ultralearning “packing” checklist should include, at a minimum:
1. WHAT TOPIC YOU’RE GOING TO LEARN AND ITS APPROXIMATE SCOPE.
2. THE PRIMARY RESOURCES YOU’RE GOING TO USE. 
3. A BENCHMARK FOR HOW OTHERS HAVE SUCCESSFULLY LEARNED THIS SKILL OR SUBJECT. 
4. DIRECT PRACTICE ACTIVITIES. 
5. BACKUP MATERIALS AND DRILLS. 

**Step 2:** Schedule Your Time
Your ultralearning project doesn’t need to be an intensive, full-time endeavor to succeed. However, it will require some time investment, and it’s better to decide on how much time you are willing to devote to learning in advance than simply hope that you’ll find the time later. 

**Step 3:** Execute Your Plan
Whatever plan you started with, now is the time to do it. No plan is perfect, and you may realize that what you’re doing for learning departs from the ideal, as established by the ultralearning principles. 

**Step 4:** Review Your Results
After your project is finished (or if you end up putting it on pause for some reason), you should spend a little time analyzing it. 

**Step 5:** Choose to Maintain or Master What You’ve Learned
After you’ve learned your skill and analyzed your efforts, you have a choice to make. All knowledge decays without any form of intervention, so the best time to make a choice about how you’re going to handle that is right after you learn something.

**Alternatives to Ultralearning: Low-Intensity Habits and Formal Instruction**

Alternative Strategy 1: Low-Intensity Habits
Low-intensity habits work well when engaging in learning is spontaneous, your frustration level is low, and learning is automatically rewarding.Habits tend to work best when the act of learning is mostly a process of accumulation, adding new skills and knowledge.
Alternative Strategy 2: Formal, Structured Education
Reasons you might want to pursue formal education rather than ultralearning. The most obvious is to acquire credentials. Another reason to pursue formal education is that it creates a learning environment that may be beneficial.

## Chapter 14
An Unconventional Education

**How to Raise an Ultralearner**

The first step is to start early. The child’s education should begin no later than three, and specialization should begin no later than six.The second step is to specialize. The third step was to make practice into play. Fourth, create positive reinforcement.
Suggestion 1: Create an Inspiring Goal
Better yet, allow people to design their own learning goals that inspire them.Inspiration is an essential starting point in the process of ultralearning. 
Suggestion 2: Be Careful with Competition
Early self-confidence can create an enthusiasm that leads to continued investment.Sometimes a project can start out being unique, thus sheltered from the harsh light of unfavorable comparison, and move to a more competitive environment once confidence has been established.
Suggestion 3: Make Learning a Priority
The normal protocol for assigning a project is to find the best person for the job and give them the task. A learning-driven approach would suggest instead that people who are not yet capable of doing the task might be assigned to the project. First, it will create a culture of learning within an organization where people are always willing to try to solve problems they don’t yet know how to solve, instead of expecting someone else to know the answer already. Second, it will help reveal talent by giving people challenges they can rise to.

**Conclusion**

It is a profound error to claim that learning is about replacing ignorance with understanding. Knowledge expands, but so does ignorance, as with a greater understanding of a subject also comes a greater appreciation for all the questions that remain unanswered. In the face of this, one must simultaneously have confidence and deep humility.
The more one learns, the greater the craving to learn more. The better one gets, the more one recognizes how much better one could become. If you finish reading this book and have been encouraged to try your own project, this would be greatest hope— not that you’d be successful at your project but that your ending would be a beginning.
